I've lately had pretty heavy feelings and my projects are not progressing much. But here's a little plan for this new year, when my mood gets better:

Like our beloved Tolkien in his days, I am also doing a little world building of my own. There are many paths I need to take, but all the paths will finally lead to a computer game. It will be a 2D, low-res ("pixelated"), top-down (yes, straight top), late 1990s style game. All the modern PC power will be utilized to have nice effects and visual stuff.

I have already done the "national" musical instruments of the society of my game world with my self-made software synthesizer (already done in 2018-2019). Those instruments will still be layered with each other to create more impactful sounds. I spent about 2 months to sample about 130 different synth instruments. A couple of dozen of those will be the true "national" instruments, which are equilevant (not sound-wise) to the orchestral instruments of our own world. Using those instruments I will also compose the "classical" music of my game world. I would like the music to be a central part of the gameplay, but the way that works is still very, very vague.

I have had visions of 2D, top-down, horror-like, non-violent game for more than a decade, and month by month the vision is getting sharper and more detailed. Few of the only visions that have survived all this time are: dark "horror-like" dungeons with impressive enough lighting, what is possible with 2D graphics.

The vision of the residents and the world, where all this happens have been changing until the end of 2025, when I finally realised that instead of conventional sci-fi or fantasy, I want this to happen in the world that is actually much closer to me: It will all take place in the golden age of the Laputian culture (about 1000 years ago). One of the only things remaining of that culture is the castle Laputa in the anime movie with the same name by Haya Miyazaki.

"That culture lived like birds in the sky with their flying castles. What have dungeons to do with it?", you might ask. Apart from their flying castles, that culture needed to dig very deep in to the earth to harvest a mineral that powered almost everything, including keeping the castles airborne: crystal aetherium. My game will (probably) not be concerned with anything above ground, instead all will happen in the underground cities (or "dungeons") where that mineral is also harvested. Actually those dungeons are most probably located beneath the great depths of Pacific Ocean (maybe 6000 meters below the surface).

One reason I wanted to get involved with the Laputian culture is that they had very advanced robots and "artificial intelligence" probably superior to our present day level. All the inhabitants of my underground worlds will be those intelligent robots. If I choose to have any form of combat in my game, it will be sure no "living being" will be hurt. I am no fan of violence. Even the main player character will be a robot (I think). Like in my life: I value co-operation so much higher than competition. Somehow I would like that to show in the game too. (Doing violence and combat in video games is, of course, often the easiest way forward).

Next I need to do a lot of planning what kind of science and technology is present in that world. E.g. much of the graphics of the game will depend on those. All sort of other world building will be needed, too, to have a compelling world, that the players would enjoy exploring. I don't know if 2D instead of 3D is good enough for my visions, but I enjoy living in a little mystery and challenging myself with new things. Using game engines 3D is not much harder, but I am using no game engine.